Well, I'm really glad to have you back again this week. Thanks for joining in, hopefully every week, for different kinds of teaching that we do through Life.Church.
uh interestingly enough a lot of people always ask me you know can i watch this message again on the weekend.
And normally, if you're watching or listening right now, this would be the weekend message, but it's not for a four-week break. Last week was the first week, and then we have 2020.
And then we have two more weeks. On the weekends right now at Life Church, we're doing a message series called At the Movies. Thank you.
and what I do is I actually let
movie clips illustrate teaching from the Bible. And because we're using movie clips, we're not actually allowed
to archive those. And so I'm going to give you just really some kind of different behind the scenes thoughts, maybe for 10 or 15 minutes a week. And I hope it'll, hope it'll be an encouraging
encouragement to you. If you would like to experience the at the movies message, you can catch them live at any one of the 25 live shows.
Life's first locations or you can catch them at church online there's about 75 or 80 different live
Church online experiences, just go to life.church.com.
And then you can click on the place that says Church Online.
or it might even say live now and go and watch those movies. so we're allowed to show them when they're streaming live but we cannot archive them.
What we're doing right now is we're actually
doing something different. I'm calling it the last four.
Our church created an app called the YouVersion Bible app.
This is a tool that I use every single day.
And so I go through different reading plans and then I highlight certain verses. You can just click on the verse and then you can put kind of like a color highlight to it. And then you can go back and see a little bit of the
Over the course of a year you might highlight.
You know, 125 verses that you
want to remember and so I'm going back and I'm taking the very the last four verses that I highlighted and I'm going to talk them through to you
On a real personal note, studying God's Word is the most powerful, life-changing thing that we can do, and I want to just encourage you
to make this a daily part of your life. If you go and start a reading plan, it's really cool. You can actually invite friends to do it with you or you can
Or you can follow what other friends are reading. So like I've got friends and family. I see what they read every single day. I can comment on it. They see what I'm reading. And to be real honest, it brings accountability.
You're like, uh-oh, Pastor Craig didn't do his reading today. Oh my gosh, you know, when people are watching, it really is a great tool of accountability. So I want to go ahead and start in.
start in today and read a verse that jumped off the page and
and one that I spent a considerable amount of time just looking at, staring at,
Thinking about and meditating on
um I've probably read it I don't know how many times but it never jumped out like it did this last time through Psalm 126
Verse five,
um says this.
Those who sow with tears,
will reap what the songs of joy
Those who sow
With tears,
"We'll reap with songs of joy. Those who sow with tears will reap with songs."
Of joy.
I'm going to explain it to you a little bit and show you kind of what God showed me.
um here's something in my world as a pastor that a lot of people may not have thought of as pastors we tend to interact with people.
Generally in extremes.
For example, if I'm meeting with somebody or involved in somebody's life,
It's generally because something amazing happened. They just had a baby. They're going to get married kind of a high point. Or on the other hand, it's a tragedy. It's someone had a car wreck.
Someone passed away, someone's marriage has fallen apart, someone has found out they had cancer. Most of the time when I'm working with people, it's not a normal thing.
Well, the normal course of life is in real extremes. For example, yesterday I had an hour and a half phone call with someone whose marriage they decided they didn't
Sighted they don't want to be married anymore. So there's all this, you know, tears and anger and fear and such. And then Amy and I are working with, you know,
A single mom they've given her about two months to live and so
you know we're trying to minister to her so we're dealing with extremes.
Lots of tears, lots of heartache.
And so every single day I'm just aware
um of people that are hurting and i'm aware right now that many of you listening or watching right now you're going through something really.
really painful. And so I pray this verse would speak to you, those who sow with tears. I want to start with the word sow. That's not a word that I use often.
But it's a word that's commonly used in the Bible. Another word for it might be plant.
In the New Testament, in Matthew's Gospel, there's a parable where Jesus is a sower, went out to sow some seeds. And so what is that? Basically a guy that takes a
That takes a bag full of seeds and he throws them along some ground hoping that there'll be a good harvest and he
Quite honestly, there's a lot of teaching in the Christian world about sowing and reaping, and it generally refers to money. If you sow a seed, you reap a harvest.
I hesitate to teach that sometimes because sometimes it can be,
move into what we call the prosperity gospel. But the reality is the principle is true. When you plant a seed, you reap a harvest. What you sow, you reap.
And Galatians, Paul said, you know, do not be deceived. God cannot be mocked. You reap what you sow. And so here, the psalmist is talking about sowing with tears.
Ah, imagine this. imagine if you're hurting.
Um,
You're worshiping
With your heart, with your tears. Now, we're not exactly sure who wrote Psalm 126,
There's some debate about it. But what we do know is the psalmist wrote it after the Babylonian captivity. And so we're talking about Jesus.
about generations of God's people hurting,
In bondage,
And you can only imagine how many tears were sown.
Ah, it, when you think about it,
Tears.
being an offering to God, God, I'm hurting and I'm hurting in your direction.
God, I'm in pain.
and I'm in pain in your direction. And actually, I'm using this hurt to draw my attention, my worship, my focus to you. I'm sowing in tears.
now, what could tears do? what would that do? well, just as a ground means means water for a plant to grow, you know, tears are moisture.
That could be a spiritual offering that would help bring growth at some point. You might shed tears over an injustice.
Someone to do you over bad news or some kind of hurt.
Some kind of wound.
You might actually share tears of repentance.
because you sinned against God.
In fact, this is an interesting question to ask is when is the last time
You've repented so deeply
before God for your sinfulness that you removed the tears.
When is the last time that you just said, "God, I hate what I've done so much. I've asked for your forgiveness. I've plead with you to cleanse me from my sin. I don't want to
want to continue to sin like this. And imagine if you take that and say, "This is an offering to God. God, I'm hurting."
and in my pain, in my disappointment, in my repentance, whatever, God, I'm coming to you and I'm using these tears as an offering, I'm sowing these to you.
I'm giving you my hurt. I'm giving you my sin. Then the next part of the verse is really powerful. Those who sow with tears will reap everything.
With songs
of joy, songs of joy. Whenever I meditate on scripture,
I always look at every single word songs and this is what's interesting is like i can't sing but i love music
I love worship music with all my heart and I can't wait to get to heaven and hopefully I'll be able to sing there. But imagine you're crying, you're weeping, you're hurting.
And God turns that word.
That weeping into an act of worship.
where maybe a week later, maybe months later, maybe years later, you know, really for God's people, it would have been decades later, they cry out, "God, you are faithful. God, you were faithful."
We're there. God, you are good. God, you heard our cries. God, you comforted us while we were mourning. God, you've turned my tears into laughter.
You've turned my offering of hurt and grief into songs of praise. And then the psalmist says it's actually songs of joy.
Enjoy.
I love that we're joy so often in our world today people are pursuing happiness. I want happiness. I want to be happy. I want to be happy. Well joy transcends happiness.
Happiness is based on happenings. It's based on what life is like around you. But joy is based on the presence of God. Joy goes, you can have joy in the middle of the world.
It'll have something difficult because you recognize God is with you and God is for you. So if you sow in tears, you can reap fruit.
With songs of joy.
Um,
The amazing thing to me is how long it would have taken between the tears.
And the songs of joy.
um not just weeks not just months not just years but for god's people in then as the psalmist was writing about it would have been decades and yet.
God.
Proved himself.
Faithful.
the the praising the song was an immediate but it was very very real so.
If you're hurting today,
And the realities I know that so many are.
um i would just encourage you to think of it this way.
If you're moved to tears if you feel overwhelmed if you feel unappreciated
If you feel like you're doing everything you can, there's not enough of you to go around.
If you've gotten really bad news.
If you feel like you're on the verge of tears,
Just let them come out.
take them to God say God I'm giving you this hurts
If you've sinned against God and you recognize it, say,
And deep moment of repentance, God, these tears are offering to you.
I give my sin to you. I give my need to you. I give my grief to you.
And this is what Psalm 126:5 says, and I pray it speaks to someone.
Those,
who sow with tears. Yes, you herd today, but as you take it to God, as you give it to God, if you let your hurting
It becomes something that drives you to God, does you sow with tears?
but reap
With songs of joy.
So if you're hurting today, I'd be honored just to pray for you. Father, I thank you, God, that perhaps you'd use your words today.
to minister to someone who's hurting. I pray God that
"Do what your word says, that cast their cares on you, God, because you care for them."
And I know there could be extreme grief today.
God where we don't even know how there could ever be a good day again. I pray that in that hurt.
that our tears would be an offering to you, God.
And even though we may not see the harvest for some time,
We trust you, God, that you're faithful, that you're a good God that cares for us.
That you're indeed working in all things to bring about good.
That you can turn our sorrow one day into laughter and songs of joy.
So God, for those who sow in tears, I pray they would reap.
In songs of joy and be blessed by your goodness and your faithfulness.
We pray all this in Jesus' name.
And then.